# Miscellaneous Tools and Build Instructions

This directory consists of subdirectories which contain useful tools for tuning and analysing the parallel performance of your application. It also has a subdirectory with detailed build instructions for the QNLP library on MacOS. Finally, a directory with a SLRUM job script for conducting strong scaling experiments on the end to end application is provided.

## Performance Optimisations: MPI Autotuining

A very simple way of gaining a potentially significant performance improvement is by specifying the environemt variable `I_MPI_TUNING_BIN` to a configuration file generated by the Intel parallel tool suite when installed. A further performance improvement can be obtained by running Intel MPI's Autotuning tool to generate a configuration file made specifically for your target application.

Scripts for running Intel MPI's Autotuning tool and comparing different versions of configuration files (ie running applications with generated configuration files) are provided in `mpi_autotune`.

## Performance Analysis

If using a version of Intel Parallel Studio XE Cluster Edition, Intel's parallel profiling tools are provided. `perf_analysis` provides SLURM run scripts for each of the performance tools provided in Intel's Parallel Studio XE Cluster Edition. It also provides a run script for exploring different NUMA node topologies by means of experimentation and comparison.

## [DEPRECATED] Building Intel-QS on MacOS 10.14.x

`MacOS_build_instructions` provides detailed instructions for building QNLP and Intel-QS on a MacOS. Although the performance and scaling of applications on PC/laptop device is very limited, it is a very useful development tool.

## Strong Scaling

A SLURM job script is provided in `strong_scaling_exp` for running strong scaling experiments on the end to end QNLP application. This generates a file containing execution times of the application at different scales. These timing results can be plotted to analyse the application's strong scaling performance. 

The SLURM job script can easily be modified to run other executables or Python scripts.
