# Application Demos

This directory contains a number of C++ applications which illustrate how the QNLP library should be used as well as the workflow. The implementation of some of the major higher level gate operations are also shown.

All of the C++ applications can be built using the Makefile generated by CMake in `intel-qnlp/`. The `run_scripts` directory contains a SLURM batch script which can be adjusted appropriately to run any of the demo C++ applications provided.

## `encoding` - encodes a set of unique bit patterns into an equal superposition of states

The `encoding` directory contains a C++ application which encodes a set of unique bit patterns represented by unsigned integers, and encodes them into a superposition of states. Each state has an equal amplitude.

## `hamming_RotY` - computes the relative similarity between a test bit pattern and a set of training bit patters

The `hamming_RotY` directory contains a C++ application which encodes a set of specified unique bit patterns (test patterns) into a superposition of states, encodes a test bit pattern into another quantum register that is tensored with each state, then computes the relative similarity between the test bit pattern and each of the training patterns by calculating the Hamming distance and then applying a Y rotation on an auxiliary qubit for each matching bit. The Y rotations adjust the amplitude of a state. Post-selection is then conducted on the auxiliary qubit, followed by a measurement of the register containing the training patterns. Repeating the experiment for a large number of shots builds a distribution of measured states. The frequency of measured states depicts the relative similarity between the test bit pattern and each of the training bit patterns.

## `hamming_similarity_example` - computes the relative similarity between the meanings of a test snetence and a set of training sentences

The `hamming_similarity_example` directory contains a C++ application that computes the similarity of a test sentence to each training sentence in a small corpus. This demo shows a simple mapping of a corpus to a basis set, then computes the similarity of a test state to the corpus in terms of the basis set. A superposition of training states are initially encoded, the Hamming distance is computed and Y-rotations executed on an auxiliary qubit to proportionally adjust the amplitudes corresponding to the similarity of each training state to the test state, followed by post-selection on the auxiliary qubit. A single state is then measured. This is repeated to build a distribution and show the similarity of the meaning  of a test sentence to the meaning of each sentence in the training corpus. 

## `isc_2019` - basic encoding of corpus to superposition of states

***** Delete ******

## `nqubit_ControledU` - applies an n-qubit controlled unitary operation to a qubit

The `nqubit_ControlledU` directory contains a C++ application which computes an n-qubit controlled unitary gate call on another qubit. This is an example of a higher order gate operation. The nCU gate call is decomposed into a series of one and two qubit gate calls. Note: the number of one and two qubit gate calls required after the decomposition grows polynomially as the number of control qubits increase.

## `run_scripts`- SLRUM batch scripts for launching application on a HPC system

The `run_scripts` directory contains a SLURM job script for launching an application on a HPC system. The script can be easily adjusted to launch other applications than the one specified in the script. A run script for launching the end-to-end application `intel-qnlp/modules/py/scripts/QNLP_EndToEnd_MPI.py` is also provided.
